Linux Notes

pwd - Print working directory
ls - list
	ls -al
	this has 2 statements. a is "show all files (including hidden)" and l stands for display more detailed directory list
cd - change directory
	by typing just "cd" this will move you back to the home directory (equivalent to "cd~")
	to navigate to root directory use "cd/"
	cd . means current working directory
	cd .. means go up a directory (~/desktop would become ~)

find - finds a file on the system
	"find" finds all files within the current directory and not WITHIN it
	this finds all files within the working directory
	if it is a file, it will print the name of the file
	if it is a folder, it will print everything inside that folder with the folder file path
	to search everything within the directory use . (find . -name *.cpp)
		this will find everything within the working directory with all extension that has .cpp
		note: * means there can be ANYTHING there (*t.txt) will find ht.txt and asdft.txt both and print working directory of both
			especially useful when trying to find something with an extension!
		-name means you are looking for a file with the name. This is required when the file is in a different directory then the one you are currently working on
		-type f means search only for files (no folders and such)
	Similarly: / finds everything on the ENTIRE computer (since / means root)
	

man - displays manual
	man *command* will display the full manual for the command.
		When finding something from the manual and testing it out MAKE SURE YOU KNOW WHAT IT DOES
		ESPECIALLY for delete commands Linux does NOT delete to a "trashcan" when using the terminal. To recover files it is a very long and tedious process and if the command is even slightly off, your entire drive may be wiped out!!!
		Remember to backup files regularly

clear - clears screen

sudo / su - executes command as super user
	to change ANYTHING in the root file you need sudo
		you must type password (only once once you open terminal) whenever accessing files as sudo
	Think of this as "admin" privilege. It may be required to access or download certain files.
	
rm - remove file
	rm -r deletes the ENTIRE file/folder without asking BE CAREFUL!!!
		VERY DIFFICULT TO GET BACK IF WRONG FILE IS DELETED!!

rmdir - remove empty directory

mkdir - make a new directory

ps - prints a list of running processes (process status)
	-a for all processes not associated with the terminal
	-T for all processes associated with the terminal
	ps aux for all processes in BSD format
	-u *user name* for all process associated with user
	-u root for processes run by root user


mv - move a file & rename files
	to rename a file, format is mv ( original file name ) ( file name you want )
	you may also do
		mv "asdf" "hi"
		assuming asdf is the original file name and hi is the file name you want. the "" is optional here.
			May also use '' instead

	to move a file, assuming the name is a
	mv a ~/Desktop will move the file a to the desktop

grep – The global regular expression print program lets you search through a file or output of another program.

dkpg --list
	lists all the packages installed on the device.

to delete a file:
	sudo apt-get remove (name of the program)
		Removes the file but leaves config file
	sudo apt-get --purge remove (name of the program)
		Removes everything including the config file
	To remove unused packages (exg. packages that were used by programs which were deleted)
		sudo apt-get autoremove
		or sudo apt-get --purge autoremove (program name)




Shortcut keys
ctrl - super - d	-> hide all page
ctrl - alt - t		-> open terminal

